We're now turning our attention to operating systems.
As a security professional,
you may or may not be the one securing individual machines,
but you will certainly engage with
the systems administration team on what should and should not be running.
In this section, we'll evaluate documentation to determine proper security settings,
learn about Windows Services,
learn about file permissions,
and close it out with Windows Updates.
This section will include prevention for Mac 3 component model of security.
While every organization's overall technology configurations are unique,
there are so many possible configurations and server
operating systems to make one size fits all recommendations impossible,
that's why we rely on best practices.
This allows a baseline of security to accompany the business needs of the organization.
As you learned in the previous lesson,
NIST has extensive documentation for securing your environment.
If your organization is subject to any regulatory compliance,
you will need to familiarize yourself with requirements.
Most compliance requirements are concerned with access, updates, and logging.
Microsoft provides recommendations on all of their products.
You can download their server security guide,
it offers advice on updates,
privileges, and several other system settings.
If your organization is subject to regulatory compliance,
such as PCI or HIPAA,
there's documentation available that provides
security configuration requirements that must be met.
We will begin with Windows file permissions.
Permissions are fundamental to securing your computing environment.
Not only do they offer protection from an outside attacker perspective,
but also regarding compliance and data integrity.
Full control is exactly what it says.
It permits reading, writing,
changing, and deleting of files and subfolders.
Modify permits reading and writing of files and subfolders,
and allows deletion of the folder.
Read and execute permits the viewing of files and sub-folders,
as well as the executing files.
List folder contents permits viewing and listing of
files and subfolders as well as the executing files.
Write permits the adding of files and subfolders.
Read permits the viewing of files.
Here is a table to review all of the permissions,
let's take a look at an example.
Here's a departmental directory for marketing.
The first object in the permissions is the administrative group.
It is not uncommon.
In fact, it's generally standard procedure,
but the administrator group to have full access to the entire server.
This allows the machine to be properly maintained.
Next on the list is the marketing group themselves.
You'll notice they have permission to read,
write, and execute anything in the folder.
Lastly, you'll see the IT group.
While it is possible to nest the IT group inside the administrators group,
there isn't any functional difference when it
comes to the permissions we're looking at today.
The IT group generally needs full access
to the entire server environment to perform new duties.
If you recall from our discussion of the principle of least privilege,
the accounts in the IT group may be used only for
administrative purposes and not for normal computer usage.
To review, the administrator and IT group have
similar rights and in some cases would be nested into one.
Marketing group have the required access to create,
read, write, and execute files.